#The purpose of this Document:
- This document notes all the challenges/bugs/errors I faced for each task categorized by phases mentioned in roadmap.md
- It notes: Brief context (what was happening, what did I do? and in which scenario?), description (why it was happening), and how I fixed it
- lessons learnt during solving the task

# Phase 0 - Define the Scope and Success Criteria

1. Challenge: The terminal did not interpret the project path correctly.
Context: I tried to navigate to the project directory using its full path without quotes. The path contained spaces and a closing parenthesis in 1)Projects.
Description: zsh interpreted the spaces as argument separators and the unquoted parenthesis as shell syntax, so the command did not reach the intended directory.
How I fixed it: I enclosed the entire path in single quotes:

cd '/Users/naman/1)Projects/agentic AI projects/Autonomous-ML-Production-Monitoring-and-Recovery-Agent'

Lesson learned: I needed to quote full paths containing spaces or shell-special characters, including file paths passed to commands.

2. Challenge: The empty component directories did not appear in Git.
Context: I created the initial folders for the agent, backend, ML service, retrieval, and other components before adding implementation files. The empty folders did not appear in git status.
Description: Git tracked files rather than empty directories, so creating a folder alone did not preserve it in the repository.
How I fixed it: I added a .gitkeep file to each empty component directory. For example:

touch agent/graph/.gitkeep

Lesson learned: I used placeholder files to preserve the initial directory structure. The .gitkeep name was a convention, not a special Git feature.

3. Challenge: steps.txt remained tracked after I added it to .gitignore.
Context: I wanted Writeup/steps.txt to stay on my computer without being included in future commits, but the file had already been added to Git.
Description: The /steps.txt rule matched only a file at the repository root. Also, ignore rules did not remove a file that was already in the Git index.
How I fixed it: I changed the rule to steps.txt so it matched at every directory level, then removed the writeup from the index while preserving the local file:

git rm --cached -- Writeup/steps.txt
git check-ignore Writeup/steps.txt

The ignore check printed Writeup/steps.txt. Git showed a staged deletion because the next commit needed to remove the tracked copy; the local file remained intact.

Lesson learned: I needed both a matching ignore rule and removal from the index to stop tracking an existing file. I used --cached to retain the local copy.

4. Challenge: A multiline editing command failed with an unmatched quote.
Context: I used a shell heredoc to run a Python editing script. The text being written to steps.txt included another heredoc command with the same PY terminator.
Description: The shell treated the inner PY line as the end of the outer script. It then parsed the remaining document text as shell input and reported an unmatched quote before the editing script ran.
How I fixed it: I changed the outer terminator to PHASE0_SCRIPT, kept PY for the command inside the document, and reran the editing command. Both closing terminators were placed on their own lines without indentation.
Lesson learned: I needed distinct delimiters when a heredoc contained another heredoc example.
